Okay, in our next section we're gonna
talk about closure, function closure, and
what that means.
This may be a term that you've heard
kind of thrown around in JavaScript or
it might be new.
And again, the terminology is not so
much the important thing as
the takeaways of the ideas.
Keep in mind when we talked
about higher order functions,
we said that functions can return other
functions as outputs just like they
can take in other functions as inputs
like map and filter and reduced it.
Now here's the other thing,
within the body of a function
you can define another function.
And because the body of
a function has its own scope,
its own notion of the values of variables.
When you define an inner function,
that inner function has access
to the outer function scope.
It has access to whatever values
that outer function is working with.
So if you define a function
within another function,
when you return out that inner function,
an interesting thing happens.
Which is that you have the possibility for
that inner function once
it's returned to remember values
from the scope in which it
was defined even if those are not being
passed in directly to the function.
[SOUND] What does that even mean?
So that's the conceptual.
Let's take a look at what that looks like.
Here is an example of a really simple and
perhaps not the most useful, but
kind of cool little function
called makeAdjectifier which
takes in an adjective.
This function is gonna define,
its defining here another
function which takes in a noun.
And then because it has access to this
scope of this makeAdjectifier function,
it's going to return a string that
uses both the adjective and the noun.
So what happens when I call
makeAdjectifier with an adjective?
If I make a new function called coolify,
coolify is what
I'm gonna name the function returned by
makeAdjectifier when I call it on cool.
Now coolify is a function.
Remember, this function
returns a function.
coolify is now something that I can
apply to a noun like workshop and
get out a string cool workshop.
I can apply it to a different noun
drink and get out a string cool drink.
And what this means is that now I can
call coolify on whatever nouns I want and
it will always remember that
the adjective it's supposed
to add is cool not rad,
awesome, or whatever else.
And this is interesting because I'm no
longer in the context in the scope of
makeAdjectifier.
But because JavaScript supports
the notion of closures,
the notion of these inner functions that
are able to what's called close over some
value that exists in the scope of
the function in which they were defined.
JavaScript is a language that supports
this meaning that this function now,
even though makeAdjectifier is done
running, I am no longer in that function,
it has retained that scope,
it can remember that value.
So in a functional world, we said
we're no longer working with state,
we're no longer working with
values changing over time,
and we're not remembering state.
But in a closure,
we have kind of a loophole for that.
We have sort of a way to remember
something that is not an explicit
argument to the function that
nevertheless is useful for
its computation without
resorting to side effects for
example, reading a global
adjective variable.
So this becomes a really useful
tool in functional programming,
which is what we're gonna dig
into in this section's exercise.